MODEPALLI LAKSHMI NARAYANACHARY
lalithtinku@gmail.com                                                                    +91 8186891961
https://www.linkedin.com/in/lalithchary/                                       Pragathi Nagar, Hyderabad

Roles:
|| Senior Business systems Analyst || PPC Engineer || Material Planning and Product Costing ||

Professional Summary
Resourceful Manufacturing Systems Analyst with 8 years of experience started with production planning, material
management, and process optimization in manufacturing environments. Expertise in integrating IT solutions to
improve production workflows, increase efficiency, and reduce costs. Strong background in system design,
development, and automation for manufacturing and IT processes.

Work Experience
Diligent SCM Solutions Pvt Ltd — Jan 2017 – May 2025
Diligent is a global manufacturer specializing in high-performance seals and hardware components made from Cobalt
and Nickel based super alloys, used in power plants and turbines.
Here I started my career as a PPC Engineer, then I transitioned to the Material Planning engineer for the whole
company including Product Costing group. Later I moved into the Business systems Analyst group to deal with the
build mistake proof business process system, which requires less effort.

Roles:
Business Systems Analyst – 2020- 2025
 ● My role is to deal with the departmental and interdepartmental processes flaws and system issues.
 ● Build the optimal solutions which require less effort along with mistake proof solutions by adopting Japanese
    manufacturing principles to eliminate Non-Value-Added (NVA) steps and streamline inter departmental
    processes.
 ● Designed and implemented mistake-proof systems for inventory management, business P&L creation, material
    planning, and export shipping.
 ● Played a pivotal role from ground level to top in the Advance License Scheme (duty-free import process), handling
    the opening and closing of 40+ licenses with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT).
 ● Handling of Statutory and compliance requirements from the CHA, Customs and DGFT.

Material Planning & Product Costing -2019-2020
● Annual material planning for all parts using customer forecasts to ensure timely availability of materials.
● Collected price quotes, performed cost comparisons, and placed orders to suppliers while managing dispatch
    schedules.
● Conducted cost estimation for sheets for all parts based on customer drawings to maintain competitive pricing.
● Monthly RM Cost for exported goods for the P & L along with the Purchase price variance.

PPC Engineer - 2017-2019
 ● Optimized customer orders by grouping and nesting them to minimize scrap during production.
 ● Created and managed job cards to ensure timely execution and adherence to customer requirements.
 ● Dealt with ~5000 variants and 15,000 PO lines per year.
 ● Job card optimization (improved visualization rather than words)
 ● Creating work instructions and SOP’s for the processes.

Projects & Achievements
 ● Training: Training the people in each role to make time for myself to learn new skills.
 ● Modernization of Job card: Removed the non-value added and repetitive data fields, added visualization and
     automized it.
 ● Material Flow Optimization: Implemented FIFO (First In, First Out) system for material flow on the shop floor,
     reducing waste and improving line balancing.
●    Raw material yield Improvement: Optimizing the nesting and cutting process to reduce the scrap by 6% for
     imported material
●    Inventory Management Dashboard: Developed a real-time dashboard to enable quick decision-making in
     inventory management.
●    Employee Leave Application: Designed an automated employee leave request system using Microsoft power
     platform.
●    Expense/Advance Forms: Created automated forms with approval and verification levels for seamless financial
     operations.
●    Intranet Website App: Developed an internal web app to provide employees with easy access to resources,
     enhancing communication.
●    Advance licenses Closed: Closed old pending advance licenses to meet the statutory requirements of
     government to continue to avail the duty-free benefit on import raw material.
●    Data Security: Met the customer audit requirements in IT infrastructure and Data security.

Technical Skills
 ● Manufacturing & IT Systems: Inventory Management, Material Planning, P&L Creation, Production Scheduling,
    Export Shipping, Duty-Free Import Schemes
 ● Software & Tools: Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Teams, Forms, PowerApps, Power Automate,
    SharePoint, OneDrive, Power BI), Tableau, Windows and Linux OS, Home Lab, Troubleshooting, Helpdesk
    Support
 ● Process Design & Automation tools: Process Mapping, Flowchart Creation, System Automation

Soft Skills
 ● Problem Solving, Analytical Thinking, Adaptability, Result-Oriented, Cross-functional Collaboration, Quick-
     learner.

Languages
 ● Telugu, Hindi, English

Certifications
● Microsoft Excel Expert Certification
● Lean Six Sigma - White Belt
● Kano Analysis Expert
● Career Essentials in System Administration by Microsoft and LinkedIn

Interests & Hobbies
• Home Lab , IoT, Home Automation, Linux, PC Building, 3D Printing, Exploring New Technologies

Education:
M. Tech in Machine Design - Anubose institute of Technology, Plavoncha - 2014 – 2016 – 73%
B. Tech in Mechanical Engineering - Sri Kavitha Engineering College, Karepalli - 2010 – 2014 – 68%
Intermediate and Schooling - Nalanda Jr College, Kothagudem - 2008 – 2010 - 86%

Declaration:
       I hereby declare that the above written particulars are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

Place: Hyderabad                                                            (Modepalli Lakshmi Narayanachary)
Date:                                                                       (preferred name: Lalithchary)
