LAKSHMI NARAYANACHARY MODEPALLI
Manufacturing Systems Analyst
+91 818689 1961

||

PPC Engineer

laithtinku@gmail.com

||

Material Planning and Product Costing

Pragathi Nagar, Hyderabad

ABOUT ME
Resourceful manufacturing systems analyst with 8 years of
experience started with production planning, material planning,
inventory management, and process optimization in
manufacturing environments. Expertise in integrating IT solutions
to improve production workflows, increase efficiency, and reduce
costs. Strong background in system design, development, and
automation for manufacturing and IT processes.

linkedin.com/in/lalithchary

EDUCATION
M. TECH IN MACHINE DESIGN
Anubose institute of Technology and
sciences, Palvoncha
2014 - 2016
73%

B. TECH IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Sri Kavitha Engineering College, Karepalli
2010 - 2014

WORK EXPERIENCE
DILIGENT SCM SOLUTIONS PVT LTD
Manufacturing Systems Analyst

2020-2025

My role is to deal with the departmental and interdepartmental process
flaws and system issues.
Build the optimal solutions that require less effort along with mistake-proof
solutions by adopting Japanese manufacturing principles to eliminate
non-value-added (NVA) steps and streamline interdepartmental
processes.
Designed and implemented mistake-proof systems for inventory
management, business P&L creation, material planning, and export
shipping.
Played a pivotal role from ground level to top in the Advance License
Scheme (duty-free import process), handling the opening and closing of
60+ licenses with the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT).
Handling of Statutory and compliance requirements from the CHA,
Customs and DGFT

DILIGENT SCM SOLUTIONS PVT LTD
Material Planning & Product Costing

2019-2020

Company wide optimized material planning.
Annual material planning for all parts using customer forecasts to ensure
timely availability of materials.
Collected price quotes, performed cost comparisons, and placed orders to
suppliers while managing dispatch schedules.
Conducted cost estimation for sheets for all parts based on customer
drawings to maintain competitive pricing.
Monthly RM cost reconciliation of exported goods
Purchase price variance for business P & L.
Product cost estimation of sheet metal components with competitive
pricing.

DILIGENT SCM SOLUTIONS PVT LTD
PPC Engineer

2017-2019

Optimized customer orders by grouping and nesting them to minimize
scrap during production.
Created and managed job cards to ensure timely execution and
adherence to customer requirements.
Dealt with ~5000 variants and 15,000 PO lines per year.
Job card optimization (improved visualization rather than words)
Creating work instructions and SOPs for the processes and training and
building the team.

68%

SKILLS
Manufacturing
Product cost Estimation
Inventory Management
Material Planning
Production Scheduling
Cost reconciliation
Kaizen Activities
Export Shipping
P&L Creation
Duty-Free Import Schemes
(Advance license)
Interdepartmental Teamwork
Process Design & Automation tools
Process Mapping
Flowchart Creation
Process Automation
Value steam mapping
Kanban boards
Lean Methods, 5s and 6 sigma
Software & Tools
Microsoft Office Suite (Excel,
Word, PowerPoint,
Teams, Forms, PowerApps, Power
Automate,
SharePoint, OneDrive, Power BI)
Tableau
Windows and Linux OS
Home Lab
Troubleshooting
Helpdesk Support

CERTIFICATIONS
Microsoft Excel Expert Certification
Lean Six Sigma—White Belt
Kano Analysis Expert
Career Essentials in System
Administration by Microsoft and
LinkedIn

PROJECTS
Modernization of Job card - Removed the non-value added and repetitive
data fields, added visualization and automized it.
Material Flow Optimization - Implemented FIFO (First In, First Out) system
for material flow on the shop floor, reducing waste and improving line
balancing.
Raw material yield Improvement - Optimizing the nesting and cutting
process to reduce the scrap by 6% for imported material
Inventory Management Dashboard - Developed a real-time dashboard to
enable quick decision-making in inventory management.
Employee Leave Application - Designed an automated employee leave
request system using Microsoft Power Platform.
Expense/Advance Forms - Created automated forms with approval and
verification levels for seamless financial operations.
Intranet Website App - Developed an internal web app to provide
employees with easy access to resources, enhancing communication.
Advance licenses Closed - Closed old pending advance licenses to meet
the statutory requirements of government to continue to avail the dutyfree benefit on import raw material.
Data Security - Met the customer audit requirements in IT infrastructure
and Data security.
Training - Training the people in each role to make time for myself to learn
new skills.

HOBBIES
Home Lab
Linux & Docker Experiments
IoT
Home Automation
PC Building
3D Printing
Explore New technologies

